---
title: 'fingerprint-资产指纹探测'
date: 2026-01-01
permalink: /posts/2026/01/fingerprint-资产指纹探测/
tags:
  - Real Work Practice
---

fingerprint-资产指纹探测论文阅读及笔记





# 基本定义

* 指纹是可以自定义特征来进行构建的
  * 延迟、丢包率、带宽、吞吐量都是可以作为参数的情况
* 

# Website Fingerprint on LEO Satellite Internet 

* **全文核心问题**：whether **LEO satellite Internet users are <u>more vulnerable</u> to website fingerprinting attacks** than users using traditional fiber connections. 【使用leo的网络用户是否比光纤用户更容易受到fingerprint attack】

* 解决方式：To answer this question, we s**et up an experimental testbed using both a**
  **fiber and Starlink connection**, and use it to collect a dataset of website accesses over
  Tor. 
  * Leverage state-of-the-art website fingerprinting attacks over our collected traces
    to understand whether network adversaries able to inspect the ground links of both kinds
    of connections are able to identify which websites are being accessed by users. 
* **结论**：通过 Starlink 互联网链路传输的 Tor 流量与通过传统光纤链路传输的 Tor 流量一样，都容易受到网站指纹识别攻击。【Our finding suggest that Tor traffic exchanged over Starlink Internet links is equally
  vulnerable to website fingerprinting attacks as Tor traffic exchanged over traditional fiber
  links. 】
  * 可能的假设：尽管连接我们测量节点到 Tor 网络的地面卫星链路或传统光纤链路具有不同的连接特性，但大多数观测到的变化都会被 Tor 自身电路引起的网络效应（例如，增加的延迟、抖动）所吸收和最小化。

## Intro

* TLS do noting about hidding communication metadata(五元组、信息交换的时间节点)
  * Tor网络 makes use of a technique known as onion routing to obscure the destination IP address of a user‘s communication by routing their user's traffic through multiple internet nodes that comprise a Tor circuit.
* Tor网络可以一定程度上提供保护，但是还是有方式绕过Tor网络的保护策略
  * An attacker can build a database of website fingerprint（a set of signatures drawn from different characteristics of the traffic observed when accessing a given website over Tor), and then attempt to **match the traffic pattern generated by a Tor user** to the fingerprint comprising this database.
* The traffic characteristics used to build each website fingerprint consit of **timing and direction characteristics of traffic**,while the matching step usually depends on the application of ML based classifier that is trained using the fingerprint contained in the adversary's database. 
* LEO网络涉及连接的问题：
  * the latency and throughput of satellite connections are highly dynamic and users frequently experience service interruptions as a result of high packet loss.
  * Many environmental factors, including temperature, precipitation, cloud cover, solar storms, and terrain, have a significant impact on the performance and power consumption of satellite connections

**Contribution**

* **A new dataset of Tor traffic over LEO satellite（starlink）**
* A new dataset over a fiber link to enable the direct comparison of results throughout 
* An experimental study over the success of state-of-the-art website fingerprinting attacks
  over satellite links.
* An exploration over the suitability of existing website fingerprinting defences to be
  deployed on LEO satellite-based Internet links.

## Website Fingerprinting

* Website fingerprinting：**a class of traffic analysis attacks** that aim to discern[识别] the specific website 

### Website FingerPrinting attacks 

* The website fingerprinting attacks can be executed into two distinct settings: open-world settings and close-world setting 
  * Close-world setting: the adversary operates under the assumption that the user will access one of the websites being monitored. **[offline-learning]**
    * The model is then trained to discern which specific monitered website the user is visiting. 
  * Open-world setting: A more realistic environment where users have the ability to access any webiste on the Internet. **[online-learning]**
    * The model is designed to discern whether a a given website belongs to the monitered category or not. 

* Broadly two groups of website fingerprint: 
  * manually crafted features：【手动提取的特征】
    * 收到的包数量、发出的包数量、burst information 
  * automated feature extraction：【构建模型自动提取特征】
    * leverage a DNN to automatically generates features from raw timing and direction data of each packet from the network interface 

**Attack using Manually crafted features**

* Possible features: timing、direction、size feature from a network trace【These features can concentrate on a single packet of the trance】

* 其他一些指纹识别方法及特征：
  * [63]：包长度、包到达顺序、包到达时间   -->判断具体访问的是哪个网站【识别网站指纹，基于KNN】
  * [40]：**CUMUL ATTACK**-->创建network trace的累积行为表示来实现网页加载过程的抽象
  * [20]：**K-FP** --> k-fingerprint，<u>utilises a modified version of random forests</u>.
    * By study feature importance, evaluating how and which features play a larger role in fingerprint. 
    * **Basic characteristics provide more substantial insights into the identification of  a web page compare to intricate characteristics**

**Attack using automated feature extraction**

* Deep learning tech to represent network trace in a latent feature space that is learned by deep neural network.
* Input for these attacks is the feature representation of a network trace,  which is either a <u>directional vector</u> or <u>a directional timing vector</u> 
  * Directional Vector: One-dimensional representation of the direction of each packet in a network trace
  * Directional timing vector contains both timing and direction information for each packet. 
* Three deep learning models[ref50]:Stacked Denoising Autoencoder(SDAE)、CNN、LSTM
* [ref 55-Deep Fingerprinting]：Refers to a website fingerprint attack on Tor that leverages CNN
* [ref37-p1-fp]：Efficacy of Multilayer Perceptrons & CNN across various WF tasks.
* [ref47-Tik tok attack]：Commonly target bursts which refer to a series of consecutive packets that are transmitted in the same direction
* [ref-3-Var-CNN]：integrates both manual and automated feature extraction techniques. The architecture of Var-CNN is derived from ResNets.
* Triplet Fingerprinting[ref 56]: A new method for conducting website fingerprinting attacks on the Tor anonymity system. 
  * 区别于传统需要大量训练数据的攻击，三重指纹识别利用三元组网络上的迁移学习进行N次学习，从而使得能够在样本有限的情况下达到高训练精度
* GANDaLF[ref-36]：基于GAN的websiteFingerprinting方法，解决训练数据有限的问题。
* AdaptiveWF[ref-62]: Adaptive Fingerprinting-Utilisation of transfer learning，more specifically adversarial domain adaptation.

### Website Fingerprinting Defences

**The primary objective of defences against website fingerprinting is to impede the adversary's capacity to effectively execute website fingerprinting attacks.** 

* 削弱对手有效执行网站指纹识别攻击的能力进行网站指纹识别防御
* 













# 当前已有指纹库-【等什么时候能访问了看看】

*  **[ref 23] compared observed encrypted traffic pattern with a pre-exisiting library of traffic fingerprints.** 
* [ref 40] : 可能有一个30w+webpage的 dataset 
* [ref20]：10w1130不同的website 








------

