---
title: 'IPID'
date: 2026-04-13
permalink: /posts/2026/04/IPID/
tags:
  - Real Work Practice
---

关于IPID的介绍及相关定义使用，from:《ZPredict：ML-Based IPID Side-channel Measurements》



# IPID相关定义

* The IPID field in the IP header is a critical component for identifying fragments of the same IP packets, as specified by the standerds [IPID用于判断流量是否属于同一个包的]
* Each outbound packet receives a unique IPID value，
  * **16 bits for IPv4   |     32 bits for IPv6**
* The methods for assigning IPID values vary across different OS.
  * Windows 8 and 10、Android 5.0.1 and FreeBSD use a global counter that increments for all outgoing packets，without regard to their destination
    * The counter wraps back to 0 after reaching the maximum value such as 65535 in IPv4
  * Linux kernel adopts a per-destination counter that grows based on the destination address. 
    * Linux 3.0 and above employ a new IPID generation algorithm that utilizes a hash function based on the **combination of source IP，destination IP and a key to point to a single counter among 2048 IPID counters**.
  * MacOS and OpenBSD utilize a random number generator to assign randomized value to the IPID field.
  * "Don't fragment" bit is set in the IP header to avoid fragmentation, packets typically receive a constant value, such as 0.

## IPID的使用

* remote measrements
* network topology mapping
* traffic analysis, and even attacks 
* 路由器级别的拓扑重构：**By using IPID, it is possible to detect alias addresses of routers,allowing for construction of a accurate router-level topology [10,35,65]** 

* 在端口扫描中的应用：NMAP‘s TCP idle/zombie scan：a zombie host with a **globally incrementing IPID** counter to guess the server's port state

* censorship：a means to block access to prohibited content and control information flow. 
  * IP blocking is a form of censorship that discards packets whose IP addresses are listed on a predetermined blacklist. 
* source  address validation
  * SAV is a crucial security mechanism used to filter packets containing fake source IP address to prevent adversaries from concealing their identities and launching attacks.
  * Two primary methods to implement SAV are **Access Control List** and **Unicast Reverse Path Forwarding** 



# Z-Predict 

## IPID prediction

* IPID prediction approach enables the learning of the historical changing behavior of an IPID counter to predict its future IPID values.
* IPID value prediction approach relies on ML regression model. [supervised learning]
  * forecasting a specific IPID time series forrecasting
* **Mainly focus on IPv4:**
  * IPID missing values ：丢包导致的IPID 存在missing value
  * IPID periodicity: IPv4在到达2^16次方-1，65535之后会重新从0开始计算
* Gaussian Fitting
  * **通过向目标主机发送spoofed packet，观察收到的IPID是否出现额外增长用于判断目标主机是否配置了SAV等过滤机制。**
  * 

# 其他工具

* SMAP：a tool designed to identify networks vulnerable to source IP address spoofing by tracking IPID values.
* 




------

